Computer Science interests me because it incorporates both logic and systematic working with a form of speed and automation that could never be achieved by an individual. My first experience of this was when I observed a programmed onscreen "turtle" complete complex movements; this showed me the strong link between mathematical knowledge and its practical application. AS Computing furthered this, which enabled me to program my own Snake-esque game at home, showing me how I could apply mathematical skills, such as method and logic, to computers. I enjoy looking at as many outcomes as possible in terms of a program, for example how the program should react if a certain circumstance occurs, regardless of likelihood, yet still maintaining a level of efficiency.

This summer I attended a course about the Linux operating system. This reminded me of a project that I had read about several years ago that was to develop an Xbox games console into a desktop workstation. At the time I judged this to be something too complicated and expensive to attempt so dismissed it. Over time I read about parallel processing and its applications, often from the Computer Science 4 Fun magazine. This combined to give me the confidence to start making my own Xbox workstation. However, I soon realised that this project lacked the complexity to challenge me for very long, so in the last couple of months I have been creating an Xbox cluster system. I intend to host my own website on this as well as a few parallel processing applications for benchmarking.

In my GCSE years I developed modifications for a computer game and learnt some Visual Basic. From this I gained a limited knowledge of programming, and the skills to teach myself. Recently I was asked to redesign the website for the West Wilts U3A, a project I am managing bearing in mind the limited skills of the end user.

I attended a NAGTY maths summer school which allowed me to experience a wide range of mathematical topics. This year I attended Villiers Park to participate in another maths course, from which I particularly appreciated a lecture on statistics as it showed me how the same things could be presented in so many different ways.

I have participated in the UK Maths Challenge, twice achieving gold. I enjoy the Challenge as it gives me the opportunity to complete non-standard problems. Studying AS Level Maths and Further Maths has taught me how to look at a problem in different ways, and to try many approaches; a technique I have found myself using repeatedly in AS Computing. I found the decision module of maths stimulating as putting thought processes to numerical solutions and operations is something that interests me about Computer Science. AS Physics helped me develop the ability to link evidence to explanation.

Alongside my maths and computing interests I am taking part in the Duke of Edinburgh Silver award scheme and am a Young Leader with the local Scouts. I play the viola at a grade 5 level and am a member of West Wilts Youth Orchestra. I have been elected by staff and peers to be PR/Communications officer on the sixth form committee and a member of the school council. In addition I spent a year helping a young student with dyslexia develop his language and reading skills. This term I will be stage managing the school production of A Midsummer Night's Dream. I also enjoy debating at Model United Nations conferences, which involves flexibility of thought. I keep up to date with New Scientist magazine, as well as reading Terry Pratchett's Discworld novels.

A Computer Science degree particularly appeals to me because it has a practical value, leading to a variety of careers. It is a subject which would enable me to stretch my problem solving abilities, both mathematically and analytically, as well as equip me with a diverse range of skills. As well as a passion for technology, I have a real enjoyment of maths, so feel such a degree will challenge and enthuse me.