The applications of computing amaze me: from self-driving cars to the algorithms that check YouTube uploads for copyrighted content. But I am also excited by the subject’s foundation in logic and mathematics. These themes featured heavily at the UNIQ summer school where I studied optimisation of recursive mathematical algorithms implemented in Haskell. This experience, alongside the Harvard CS50 lectures, confirmed my desire to study computer science.

After engaging with low level data representation and computer architecture in AS Computing, I found reading 'The Pattern on the Stone' fascinating, in particular the example of abstraction in how Boolean logic can be implemented with mechanics or water pressure rather than electrical currents. I am interested in optimisation, whether examining others' Project Euler solutions, studying decision mathematics, or arranging my furniture to provide maximum floor space. Therefore, I am completing an extended project that investigates the efficiency of string search algorithms. This will enhance my research skills, as well as the independent study skills I developed through sitting A level Mathematics three years early. I am looking forward to being inspired by Stanford's online Artificial Intelligence course, not only because of the course content, but also due to its online approach to teaching and assessment.

I spent five weeks of the Summer working for a software consultancy company, developing a new PHP report generation system, using a Javascript graphing library. This showed me the reality of working life, in addition to technical considerations such as writing automated tests; working with object oriented code and using a range of programming languages. Utilising VB.NET, I competed in the British Informatics Olympiad and came 17th in the National Cipher Challenge. Cryptography and steganography engage me because of their mathematical roots and wide ranging practical applications. I used Python to create an interface between Facebook APIs and the Ubuntu messaging menu and since open sourcing this project, I have supported users and considered interface design, accessibility and translation.

I have won five golds in the UKMT individual mathematics challenges and participated in team competitions and follow on rounds. I enjoy the logical, but somewhat creative, approach that is required. Similarly, I found ‘The Philosophy Gym’ by Stephen Law a compelling introduction to philosophical thinking which led me to read further around issues relating to ethics, freedom and paradoxes. I appreciated the use of a familiar environment to explore ideas in the essays in ‘Harry Potter and Philosophy’, but questioned some of the authors’ arguments. The Schools Mace debating competition taught me the importance of thorough research, a skill I employed whilst leading my school’s radio station and short film production team. My technical skills and awareness of copyright law were also developed by an enterprise challenge for which I created interactive, educational CD-ROMs. My team made £2000 and won first prize.

I created and administer the website for my flute choir. Performing as principal flautist in both the ****** Youth Orchestra and Wind Band requires me to lead a team. Rehearsing for difficult solos has taught me to work under pressure to a deadline. Attending several weekly rehearsals requires commitment and has improved my time management skills, balancing practice with academic work. Ten months after starting to play the bassoon I achieved a distinction at Grade 4, a feat I believe shows my ambition and self motivation.

I will bring my commitment and enthusiasm to every aspect of university life, and I look forward to being pushed beyond my comfort zone in the exciting field of computer science.